Good morning.
So just before we begin,
a quick show of hands.
Who either saw the App Sandbox
talk at last year's WWDC or
watched the video online?
Okay, that's great.
That's a lot of you.
Who has tried App Sandbox
with their app thus far?
Show of hands.
Okay, that's also a lot of you.
Who has brought a pitchfork to this talk?
That's also a lot of you.
Okay.
All right.
Excellent.
So one thing,
this talk stands on its own.
You don't have to have seen
the last years to be able to
follow along with this one.
But a lot of the introductory
material that was discussed in last
year's talk is shortened this year.
And this talk is actually
being repeated on Friday.
So for those of you who want sort of
more of an introduction to all of this,
you could actually come back for
Friday's talk and until then actually
watch last year's presentation online.
But you don't have to.
And if you're here,
you should definitely stay.
And let's talk about fSandbox.
So, App Sandbox, you know,
we're going to be talking
about safety engineering.
That's what App Sandbox is all about.
And I thought we'd start with
an example of safety engineering
that all of you are familiar with,
which are cars.
So, last year, the American NHTSA, the
Highway Safety Traffic Administration,
announced that accident-related,
car accident-related fatalities have
been at their lowest level since 1949.
Big milestone because people are driving
more and there are more cars on the road,
but the number of
accidents keeps dropping.
And there are a lot of reasons for that.
Primarily,
there's been a ton of innovation in the
space of making sure that you never wind
up in an accident in the first place.
So, everything from things
that we take for granted,
like anti-lock brakes now,
to very new systems,
like I think this year is the first
year that some cars are shipping with
a system that can detect when you're
drowsy because you're drifting between
lanes and can actually warn you,
you probably shouldn't be driving,
you're drifting, don't do that.
So, traction control, stability control.
A lot of these systems that try
really hard at blind spot detection,
they try really hard for you to
never wind up in an accident.
But, at the same time,
sometimes accidents happen.
And when they do,
you want something to contain the
damage and the injury to the accident.
And for this, another set of innovations,
like the seat belt and airbags,
which are now mandatory,
have been invaluable.
So, you can really see how much
you can do with these things.
And this is very different than how
computer security has traditionally
worked on desktop operating systems.
There,
almost all the effort and all the work
has gone into making sure that an attack
never succeeds in the first place.
But if it does,
there's never been an analog to
seatbelts and airbags that try to
contain the damage from that attack.
And that set up this really bad dynamic
between attackers and defenders,
where defenders,
in order to keep your system safe,
have to defend everything
100% of the time,
whereas an attacker only
needs to find one hole,
one place to take over, and if they do,
it's game over.
They've succeeded.
The attack has been launched.
There is no containment of
damage to what they can do.
They can just do anything they want.
Why is that?
Well, it turns out that the assumption in
computing that's led to this state
of affairs is now 40 years old.
That's 4-0.
And the assumption is this:
every program you run should run
with all the privileges that you,
the user, possess.
In other words,
security should be something
that we erect between
different users of a system,
but not between different
programs of the same user.
And it should be pretty clear
that that assumption isn't really
a good assumption these days.
For one, most computing devices that
we use today are actually
single user computing devices.
It seems pretty obvious that not
every app you run should be able
to access all the data you have.
In fact,
an even stronger statement is that
every app you run should really
only be able to access the data
that it needs to get its job done.
But instead, we were in this situation
where here is my favorite app.
This is Watch Grass Grow app.
It's an app that lets
you watch grass grow.
You know,
if you exploit watchgrassgrow.app,
you get to read the user's email
and steal all their files and try
and attack their passwords and
get their full browsing history.
There's just,
there's absolutely no limit on what
exploiting this app that should never
have access to any user data can do.
So in response to this, you might say,
well, why don't we come up with a way
to ask the user what data do they
want to make available to this app?
What should this app be able to do?
And it turns out that
that doesn't work either.
This is what your users see
any time you put up a dialogue
that asks security questions.
So there's this fantastic
saying in Washington politics,
which is, if you're explaining,
you're losing.
And this is true for security UI.
It effectively does not work.
Every time you put up a piece of user
interface where the user has to make
an informed decision about security,
they're overwhelmingly likely to just
click the button that they think will let
them keep going as quickly as possible.
And we've basically been -- the
whole industry has been using
Pavlovian conditioning to get
users to just dismiss security
dialogues as quickly as they can.
So this is not a good approach.
All the while, the computing landscape
itself has changed a lot.
There has never been this many apps
or this many developers writing apps.
It's never been this easy to find new
apps and download them and run them.
Computers have never been more connected.
And the security challenge has very
much unambiguously moved to how
do we isolate different programs
instead of just different users.́
Another landscape change that you
can see is that ones and zeros have
started appearing all over the world.
Actually, you know what?
I love stock photos.
I'm just going to take a moment
to reflect on this because if you
look for stock photos of like a
toaster and you find a toaster
and it's a picture of a toaster,
it's just a toaster, right?
But if you take ones and zeros
and you put ones and zeros
over the image of a toaster,
now it's a hacker toaster.
I love ones and zeros.
Anyway, sorry.
Back to your regular schedule program.
Okay, so...
The number one enemy of
security is complexity.
And the software we're
building is ever more complex.
This is, I think,
the biggest challenge for
the entire software industry
as a whole is complexity.
Complexity is rising,
complex systems have vulnerabilities,
they have problems,
and the current set of affairs is
that all you need is this one buffer
overflow somewhere in the enormous
amount of code that's powering your
app and everything underneath it,
and it's game over,
the attacker wins and your user loses.
And, you know, the reason that this is an
important point to stress is because
I've heard this question a lot,
actually, from you guys.
Well,
why would anyone bother attacking my app?
Like, I have a small app, it's, you know,
maybe it's not even super
well known outside of its,
like, niche of users.
Why would anyone bother attacking it?
Well, they might not.
They might not bother attacking your app,
but what you should remember is that your
app probably accounts for a very small
number of lines of the actual total code.
That's being run when your app runs.
So there are all these frameworks and
libraries whose code you don't control.
And my favorite example, I mean,
if you're showing a web page anywhere,
if you have a web view
anywhere in your app,
that's millions of lines of
code that you didn't write.
Enormous complexity,
including a just-in-time compiler and
a full-blown JavaScript engine that's
emitting native code in real time.
A successful attack on any of that
is enough to take over your app,
which if not limited,
means that the entire
system has been taken over.
So that's the backdrop.
That was not a good state of affairs.
So it's against that backdrop that
in Lion we introduced App Sandbox,
which was an approach for more secure
applications that tried to drive security
policy by looking at user intent,
which was a very different
way of approaching security,
one that does not rely on asking
the user with dialogues what to do,
and that focused strongly on
containing exploit damage.
If things ended up going wrong,
can we contain the fallout?
So specifically in the
case of applications,
we wanted with App Sandbox to
make it hard for benign but
exploited applications to steal
or corrupt or destroy user data.
And the basic premise here,
and I know that this is familiar to
most of you because it sounds like
most of you have tried App Sandbox,
is that you as developers know what
your app is supposed to be able to do
during its normal course of operation,
you know, when it's just doing its job
and it hasn't been taken over.
So, you can express that now
to the operating system.
The operating system takes
each application and puts
it in its own container,
basically giving it its
own little home directory.
And access to documents is
actually controlled by the user
but through implicit interactions
that they're already used to.
So, I'll show you what that looks like.
And mind you, all of this,
even though there's tight control
on the user choosing what documents
your application can access,
all the sort of common special
cases like the recent menu items
or drag and drop or the pasteboard.
They just all work.
So here is how app sandbox is built.
There are basically four key elements.
We're going to run
through them very briefly.
Entitlements are the list of those
permissions that specify to the
operating system what it is your app,
what kind of permissions does your app
want to be able to get its job done.
There are things like my app needs
access to the address book or my
app needs access to the network.
And entitlements are very simple.
They're basically a single property list,
one level deep.
You can edit it directly in Xcode,
but there's also a very nice
user interface in Xcode itself
that we'll show you in a moment.
And these are meant to be very
straightforward to understand.
There's only about 20
entitlements in Mountain Lion.
Some of them have read only
and read write flavors,
but there's basically 20 base
entitlements in Mountain Lion.
So the number is
intentionally very small.
In fact, here is the complete
list in Mountain Lion.
I mentioned containers and
giving each app its own.
So the way this works
is also very simple.
There's no kernel magic,
there's no remapping of file access.
All we do is export these
two environment variables,
home and cfx-user-home,
that basically tells all the
Cocoa APIs that an application
directory that's been assigned to your
particular app is the home directory.
So what that means is here's your app,
we'll just put it in a sandbox,
and if the app was to use a low-level
call to try and access a documented
user home directory directly,
the sandbox would
actually deny this access.
But if you use a
Cocoa API like NSHomeDirectory,
that's actually within the
container and the sandbox would
allow it and everything's happy.
Powerbox is another key
element of the overall design.
So if you think about Cocoa open
and save panels for a moment,
they're this incredibly unambiguous
declaration of user intent.
When there's an open panel
on the screen that an app put
up and the user picks a file,
it's very clear what
they want to have happen.
They want the app to open the
file that they just picked.
And we use that user intent declaration,
which is implicit,
to drive security policy,
which means in a sandboxed app,
when an open panel comes up,
it's actually run through a
trusted mediator called Powerbox.
And then when the user selects
some files and folders,
only those that are selected are actually
made available within the sandbox
of the app that's put up the panel.
And the important thing to point out
here is that having this trusted mediator
process and informing security policy by
user intent means that it's of paramount
importance for App Sandbox to know that
the panel that the trusted mediator is
putting up is actually being driven by
the user and not by the app that might
have gotten exploited and is trying to,
you know, trying to use PowerBox to
get access to everything.
And what this means is
that sandboxed applications
cannot synthesize user input.
They can't fake mouse movement,
they can't fake keystrokes,
and the reason for that is
simply that if they could,
then the whole premise of driving
security policy by user intent
breaks down and suddenly the
app is not sandboxed anymore.
[Transcript missing]
Finally,
because AppSandbox relies on this idea
of the principle of least privilege,
which is that applications should have
only the amount of privilege they need
to get their job done and no more,
the idea of taking applications
and breaking them up into different
pieces that have different privilege
requirements -- for instance,
a piece of the app that just needs
to be able to talk to the network,
but not look at any user files,
and then a main part of the app
that needs to be able to deal with
files but not talk to the network
-- it's a very important idea.
And because of this, XPC services,
which are a new mechanism since Lion,
have allowed you to
take your applications,
break them up into functional pieces,
assign different
entitlements to every piece,
and do this faster and easier than
has ever been possible in Mac OS X.
So each of these XTC services
gets their own entitlements.
Life cycle management is
completely taken care of for you.
You don't have to fork and
exec these helpers or services.
They just come up when you need them,
they go away when you don't,
and they're only available to the
app that actually started them.
So if you ship them in your bundle,
they're only available to your app.
So what does this look like
when it's all put together?
Well, I used the example of Adium,
which is an app I like a lot.
It's a popular open source
system messaging client.
I'm sure most of you have heard of it.
Very full-featured,
makes really great use of a
lot of OS X functionality.
The app itself, so ignoring frameworks,
is about 250 source files,
about 75,000 lines of code,
and then another 65,000 lines of
code just in the app's framework.
So not system frameworks,
but actually just the frameworks
that Adium itself provides.
And if we were to try and sandbox Adium,
our process would basically be the
same as for trying to sandbox any app,
which is we're going to try and
pick some entitlements that seem
reasonable for this app for,
you know,
when it's doing its normal operation.
We're going to sign the application,
add those entitlements,
we're going to run the program,
make sure that it's actually sandboxed,
and then we'll see if any
sandbox violations come up.
So let's see what that looks like.
Okay, here is ADM.
And what we'll do is
here's the main ADM target.
We'll say that we want
the code signed this.
We'll scroll down.
And down here,
we'll say we want to enable entitlements.
App Sandbox comes up automatically.
And ADM needs to be able to
receive files from our buddies,
so we'll enable that.
It needs to be able to access
user-selected files if we're sending
files to buddies or receiving them,
so we'll enable that.
And...
For our buddy list,
we want this to be able to
access our address book,
so we'll enable that too,
and we'll run it.
And we'll run it.
So here's Adium.
It came up.
So the first thing we'll do is
we'll switch to Activity Monitor,
and in the View menu in the columns,
we'll enable the Sandbox column.
And so we'll see here that the
Sandbox is enabled for Adium.
Unfortunately,
it's not connecting to the internet.
I'm not seeing my buddy list,
and in fact, if I look into my accounts,
I can see that there's an error.
Connection failed.
It's going to try and reconnect.
So I don't know what happened.
Let's look at console.
So here I've just filtered by SandboxD,
which is the sandbox logging daemon.
And I'll notice that there's a bunch of
sandbox denials that took place for ADM.
And most interesting to me are these
ones down here that say that sandbox
denied a network outbound operation
to these IP addresses and these ports.
So that sounds like
something that's important.
And, you know, why is that?
I don't know.
Let's look back here in the target.
Right, because I allowed ADM to receive
inbound network connections but
not to make any outgoing ones.
So we'll just enable that and rerun it.
Okay?
How about now?
All right.
That worked great.
So, one thing I want to point out,
when we were debugging this and trying
to figure out what's actually happening,
you notice these one-line
summaries of what happened,
but actually if you expand
the little disclosure triangle
and click full report,
What you'll get is a nice,
symbolicated backtrace of exactly
where the violation occurred.
So, in here I can see that, you know,
ADM was calling into AppKit,
Core Foundation, CF Network,
that eventually made it into libpurple,
which is its networking library,
and that tried to connect and make
this network outbound connection,
and because it didn't have the
entitlement that enabled that,
App Sandbox denied it.
And as soon as I enabled the entitlement,
everything was good again.
So that's it.
We now have ADM running in a sandbox,
and it's able to make a connection,
it's online.
That was it.
That was the whole process
for sandboxing ADM.
So why?
Why did we just do that?
What was the point of that exercise?
The point was that once we sandboxed ADM,
an attacker who can take advantage
of a vulnerability in ADM,
or any of its frameworks,
or any of its libraries,
or anything underneath it,
previously can take over
basically the whole machine,
has access to all of your data,
all of your documents,
everything that's there.
But now, when sandboxed,
if an attacker was to exploit
a vulnerability in ADM,
all they would have access to are the
files that you sent or received from your
buddies during that one runtime of ADM.
Meaning, only that one session.
If you quit it and turn it back on,
the file access is basically gone and
the attacker has access to nothing.
So if you didn't send and receive files,
the attacker has almost nothing that they
can do on the machine unless they have
a second vulnerability on the system,
and the second exploit for that,
and can basically chain these
vulnerabilities together to
try and escape the sandbox.
But basically,
the bar has just gotten immensely
higher for any successful attack
against ADM once we put it in a sandbox.
App Sandbox came out in Lion,
and since then we've put in a lot
of work to add some really great
stuff to make it support even
more apps and even more features.
Let me tell you about what we did.
There are four key new features
that I'm going to be talking about.
And you'll notice that two of them are
actually available already in Lion.
So let's talk about security
scope bookmarks first.
When, as I just mentioned, for ADM,
when you quit it,
any files that the user had selected
during the previous run are,
you know, the app no longer has access
to the next time it starts.
And that's,
that default behavior where the app loses
access to user-selected files when it's
quit should make total sense to you.
You don't want the app to just
forever accumulate access to every
file that the user has ever selected.
So the idea that by default it
loses access is the right default.
But there are times when that
default is simply not appropriate.
So most commonly, applications want to be
able to allow the user to,
in the configuration, pick, like,
a commonly accessed set of
files or a directory for either,
you know, input or output that's really
part of the app's configuration.
Like, you know,
write out all my files to this directory.
I configured the app to do this.
I wanted to do it every single
time it writes out a file.
Well, if the user did that
and picked a directory,
the app needs to be able to preserve
access to it across relaunch.
And the default of losing
access is not there.
So that's not correct there.
Another common case where this is a
problem are applications whose document
formats rely on being able to reference
files that are elsewhere on disk that
are not stored in the document itself,
which means once the user
goes through PowerBox and
selects the document to open,
the app gets access to the document,
but it can't follow those references
elsewhere to the file system
to pick up the reference files.
So security scope bookmarks
address both of these use cases.
And I'll show you how.
For the first case I mentioned,
basically per app configuration,
we have something we
call app scope bookmarks.
And these are available.
They don't have new entitlements on them.
They are simply available already
if you have the user-selected
files access entitlement.
And an example here is Mail.
Mail is sandboxed in Mountain Lion,
and Mail lets you pick
a downloads folder,
where do you want all of your
attachments to get downloaded to.
So Mail does this by using
an AppScope bookmark.
And AppScope bookmarks, as I'll show you,
are locked to both the user
and the app that created them.
So here's what I mean.
A user picks a file or a folder,
in this case, let's say, in mail,
that I picked an alternative
downloads folder.
And through doing this through PowerBox,
the user provides access to
the file or folder to the app.
The app can take this file or folder that
it now has access to and send it into
the NSURL Bookmark Data with Options API.
Which is going to return
this cryptographic ticket,
essentially, just an NSData object,
just bytes, to the app and say,
here it is, this is your bookmark,
your AppScope bookmark for
access to this file or folder.
And the app, once it has this NSData,
can actually store it anywhere it wants.
It can put it in its container
somewhere in the file system,
or it can put it into user
defaults or preferences,
or it can put it in core data.
It doesn't matter.
The app can just put it somewhere
where it'll have access to it
immediately after it's launched.
Later, when the app is relaunched,
it can pick up that NSData that
it received previously,
send it into the NSURL API called
URLByResolvingBookmarkData.
That will check the cryptographic ticket,
and if it checks out,
it'll send back the file or folder,
basically make it available
within the sandbox that the
Apps.co bookmark was created for.
And since I mentioned that these
are locked to the app and the user,
if another app was somehow to
get access to this cryptographic
ticket and try and resolve it,
that would actually fail because, again,
we're locked to the app and the user.
Of course,
if this other app made its own Apps.co
bookmark and the user gave it access,
that would work just fine.
For the second use case,
which are document formats that
themselves allow file references
to be placed in the document,
we have a different feature
of Security Scope Bookmarks
called Document Scope Bookmarks.
These actually have a new entitlement,
the Document Scope Bookmarks entitlement.
And they basically allow you to
solve exactly this problem where
you have a document and you want it
to embed references to other files.
Now, there are a few differences.
Unlike AppScope bookmarks,
DocumentScope bookmarks can
only embed references to files,
not folders.
And they cannot embed references to
files in certain system locations or
hidden locations like Tilda Library.
Let me show you what this looks like.
The user creates a
document within their app,
and let's say the user
also picks a really,
really big movie that they want
to insert into the document,
so the app doesn't want to take
this multi-gigabyte movie and
write it into the document.
It wants to just maintain a reference
within the document to the movie.
So what it would do now is
actually take both of these and
send them into the same API,
Bookmark Data with Options,
and it's important that unlike in
AppScope where we just were saying,
"What do we want to
bookmark?" With DocumentScope,
the app is actually indicating
both what it wants to bookmark,
in this case the movie,
and what document it plans
to put the bookmark into,
in this case the document
that the user created.
Out comes a cryptographic ticket that is
no longer locked to the app or the user,
but is locked to the document
that the app specified.
So, the presence of this
bookmark in the document,
you can think of it as later redeemable.
It's a cryptographic ticket that
can later be redeemed for access
to the movie that it references.
What this means is that when the
app later comes along and the
user just opens that document,
normally the app right now,
it has access to the document
but not to the referenced movie.
But what it can do is take the
NSData that it got previously,
send that and the document
it got it from to the API.
The API will check that
the bookmark is valid,
that it's locked to the right document,
and if these checks pass,
it'll send back access to the
movie and the app can now show
it as part of the document.
Thank you.
As I mentioned,
if another app was to get its
hands on the same document,
this works just fine because
documents code bookmarks are meant
to be interoperable between users,
between machines,
and between apps that know
how to handle this API.
So we build security scope
bookmarks with basically no new
API for the bookmarks themselves.
Mind you, bookmarks,
I guess I should mention,
since Snow Leopard bookmarks
are the canonical way on OS X of
locating files persistently,
meaning even if they change
names or they move to a different
location in the file system,
bookmarks can do this.
So they're a replacement for some
of you that have been doing this
for a long time for things like
aliases and FSRFs and so forth.
They're the modern way of doing
persistent file references.
So all we did was to provide
some new flags on the existing
APIs at the NSVRL level,
and we also actually do have core
foundational level APIs for this,
and that's all you need to be
able to use this functionality.
But there is one key difference,
which is that when you resolve... So if
you have a security scope bookmark,
even though all you get back,
like in the normal case,
is a URL telling you, you know,
here's the movie.
It behaves differently.
You have this URL now.
It got resolved.
Everything is great.
But if you try accessing the movie,
it'll fail.
It'll say,
"I don't have permission." Because the
URL you got back from the security
scoped bookmark resolution API is
something we call a security scoped URL,
which means you have to call a method
called start accessing security scoped
resource on that URL before it's actually
made available within your sandbox.
So the flow is you resolve the bookmark,
you get back a URL,
you indicate to the operating system
that you plan to make use of this URL by
saying start accessing the resource,
and it's now available in your sandbox.
You use it.
When you're done, because the user,
let's say, closes the document,
you have to indicate to the operating
system that you have no further
use for that resource at this time.
And you do that by calling another
new method on that URL called stop
accessing security scoped resource.
This is really important
because if you don't do that,
you're not going to get the same results.
balance the calls.
Well, obviously, if you don't call start,
you simply can't use the resource,
so you have to call start.
But if you don't balance
the calls with stop,
what's going to happen is the kernel
will eventually refuse to let you do any
other new interactions with user files,
which means if you don't call stop
and you call start enough times,
the power box will
basically not work anymore.
You will not be able to access
any new files selected through it.
Drag and drop will not work anymore.
Bookmark resolution
will not work anymore.
So, you know,
the kernel is basically only willing
to let you call start so many times
without balancing it out with stop,
which is why it's important
to make sure that you're
reasonably balancing these calls.
Another new feature added since Lion,
but also available in Lion,
just like Better Way Security Scope
bookmarks,
are something we call application groups.
So App Sandbox strives for
strong isolation between
applications by default.
Well, sometimes, again,
that default is not the right default,
especially when we're talking
about groups of applications
from the same developer,
either app suites or
apps and their helpers,
where being able to share data on
the file system or being able to
do direct IPC is really important.
So we now have a special
affordance for just this.
There's a new entitlement
called Application Groups.
This is either a single group for
each app or an array of groups.
The only requirement is that
every group name must begin with
your Apple-assigned Team ID.
And applications that are in the same
application group get to engage in direct
IPC and get a dedicated file system
location where they can share data.
Here's what that looks like.
Here's our application.
If it calls in its home directory,
it gets its container.
The container is within the sandbox.
Everything's happy.
But if the app happens to have a helper,
the main app can't look
at the helper's container.
This is denied by the sandbox.
So if the app and the helper
want to share some data,
this was previously difficult.
It required some temporary
exception entitlements.
But now what we can do is
take this new entitlement,
application groups.
And here we're going to pick our team ID,
put it in, put a dot there.
And let's say that because
this is an app and a helper,
the application group name can
just be my app for both of them.
So we're going to take this entitlement.
We're going to apply it to our app.
We're going to apply the same
entitlement to our helper.
And what's going to happen is now there
is a file system location named exactly
after the application group that both of
these can access and read and write to.
Moreover, because they're in the
same application group,
they can do direct Mach communication,
they can do direct post-ex communication.
And in fact, we have this API called
SMLoginItemSetEnabled.
If your helper is a login item helper,
so it has a lifecycle that's
different from the main app,
Now, when the main app comes online,
you can actually establish
XPC communication to your helper.
So, by the way,
we have sample code showing
you how to do all of this.
In fact,
this exact example with a main app and
a helper and SM login items set enabled
and the application group's entitlement,
you should check it out.
It's great and shows you
exactly how to do this.
Another feature,
and this one in Mountain Lion only,
is something we call related items.
When a user selects a file or a folder,
sometimes the application really
needs access to something that
constitutes a related item,
usually in the same location.
So one example is a movie player
where the user opens a movie file,
and by convention,
subtitles are usually in the exact
same directory as the movie file,
but they just have a
different file extension.
And previously,
if the movie player was sandboxed,
this would be difficult because
the user gave access to the
movie but not the subtitle file,
so now the movie player can't even
look if the subtitle file exists
without popping open a new open panel.
Not a great user experience.
Well now, in Mountain Lion,
through related items, we can do better.
The movie player can specify that it
supports playback of movie files and that
movie files have a related file type,
basically subtitle files,
which will make it so that if
the user picks a movie file,
the application will be granted access to
the related subtitle files automatically.
automatically with no need
for another open panel.
A similar case,
although slightly different,
is an application like TextEdit,
where if you open a new document,
it's a rich text format document,
and you type some stuff in,
it gets saved as a .rtf, that's great.
But as soon as you drag in a file,
an attachment,
an image into this document,
TextEdit undercovers,
will actually want to replace the
file with a directory that's called
the same thing as the file was,
but the extension changes
to .rtfd for .rtf directory,
and wants to put the
attachments in there.
So through the Related Items API,
TextEdit can now do just this.
It can basically say that
.rtf and .rtfd are related,
which means even though the user only
gave it access... ...to the .rtf,
it can transparently,
without popping open a new save panel,
upgrade the file type to be a
directory and append the D to the
extension and call it an .rtfd,
and this can all happen without
further user interaction.
So the way we do this,
this functionality,
both of the use cases are
implemented through NSFilePresenter,
and the declaration of patterns that are
allowed to be related are basically go
through your application's Info.plist,
not your entitlements.
And then you can do this.
And we'll have some more documentation
and an explanation for how to
best use this as we go forward.
So last but not least,
let's talk about automation.
The Mac has been the best
automation platform in the world,
and OS X has been the best
and still is.
And when we introduced App Sandbox,
We have to introduce some restrictions
on how automation can work.
Specifically, even though we put no
restrictions on whether a
sandboxed app could be scripted,
meaning if you have script editor,
you can still control a sandboxed
app any way you could before,
what we did have to do is restrict
how a sandboxed application can
script the rest of the system.
And the restriction was pretty strong.
By default,
applications could simply not script
the rest of the system at all.
But in Mountain Lion,
we have two brand new mechanisms
that address the most common
use cases for safe scripting
from sandboxed applications.
This, by the way, has been,
I've received a lot of
questions about why is it,
why aren't there entitlements,
why isn't there some way to let my
app script the rest of the system?
And the answer is very simple,
because the way scripting is
built on OS X is on top of a
mechanism called Apple Events,
and by default,
if you can send Apple Events,
then you are not sandboxed.
Why?
Well, because if you can script Finder,
you can escape any file
system restriction.
If you can script Safari,
you can escape any network restriction.
And if you can script terminal,
you can escape any restriction.
Which is why, by default,
Sandbox applications were not
allowed to send any Apple events.
And in Lion, in order to get a Sandbox
app to send any Apple events,
you have to use a temporary
exception entitlement.
So this is what sending
Apple events to mail,
for instance, to compose a new message
looked like in Lion.
There was this entitlement,
temporary exception Apple event,
and you would say,
I want to be able to send this to mail,
and that's how that worked.
And actually, I want to take just a
moment to point out,
there was a lot of consternation
about the name temporary exception.
What does this mean?
Does it mean that
Apple events are going away?
Are Apple events now
a temporary mechanism?
No, it doesn't mean that.
It means that App Sandbox
had no permanent,
supportable, safe mechanism yet for
doing Apple events,
which is why the only one made
available was a temporary exception.
But now in Mountain Lion,
you get to see what the
non-temporary mechanism looks like.
New in Mountain Lion is a
mechanism we call access groups.
An application that defines
a scripting interface,
this is what we call an SDef,
can now take certain commands
and classes and properties in its
scripting dictionary and mark them
up into access groups that will be
accessible by sandboxed applications.
We did this in Mountain Lion already
for a few applications,
so Mail exposes an access
group called mail.compose.
iTunes exposes access
groups called playback,
library read, library write.
Access groups can be defined in any
application scripting dictionary.
The application itself
doesn't have to be sandboxed.
And once an access group is defined,
so actually let's look at Mail here.
Mail has the scripting dictionary.
It can do outgoing messages.
So what we did was we added an access
group identifier called mail.compose
that names the access group.
And we did the same for
this outgoing message.
But then actually for the send command,
we did not put it in an access group.
What this means is that an application,
that sandbox,
can now use a new entitlement
in Mountain Lion called
Apple Security Scripting Targets to
indicate that it wants access to specific
access groups in specific applications.
In Mountain Lion,
here's how you would safely,
with no temporary exception,
be able to pop open Mail Compose windows
through Apple Events and Apple Scripting.
You would say,
"I am going to declare a scripting
target in my entitlements.
The target is 'Mail,' and the
name of the access group I want
to target is 'Mail.compose.'"
So this is great for application
authors being able to carve up
their scripting definition and say,
you know, these things are safe for
sandbox staffs to be able to do.
I'm just going to expose it to them.
And then you get to adopt and say I'm
going to use this as a scripting target.
That's great.
But there are use cases where
any kind of restriction on what
a script can do is inappropriate.
And generally that use
case are attached scripts.
So if you imagine the general
idea of an event handler,
like a mail rule,
that wants to be able to,
you want to say when I get a
message that matches this rule,
I want to run this script.
Well, if you wrote the script, right?
You shouldn't be bound by what
mail within its sandbox can do.
I mean, maybe you want the script
to take the message,
take the attachments,
put them anywhere on the file system,
open Safari.
There's really no reasonable restriction
that can be imposed upon that.
So the scripting definition
markup with access groups doesn't
really address that use case.
So we introduced another
automation security feature called
Application Run User Scripts,
and here's how it works.
Under the user's library directory,
there is now a new directory
called application scripts.
And under that directory,
there's a new directory named
after each sandbox application
that uses this functionality's
code signing identifier that's
normally the same as the bundle ID.
So basically,
we assign a special new directory
for every sandboxed app that the
app itself can only read from.
It cannot write to it.
But
Through a new API called NSUserScriptask
that is available in Foundation,
the app can say,
"I want to execute this script that's
in my per-application scripting
directory with no restrictions."
This can be an Automator script,
it can be Apple script,
it can be a Unix script or a binary,
and there is no restriction placed
upon what the script can do.
The script runs entirely
outside of the sandbox.
And the idea is that once again,
we're basically driving
security policy by user intent.
Because the application cannot
write to that directory,
the only way for a script to appear there
is if the user actually put it there.
So mind you,
the app can reveal the application
script directory in Finder,
and the user can put a script there.
And by the act of the user indicating
that they want to put a script there
and make it available to the app,
the app is now able to invoke it.
The system will run the
script on the app's behalf.
With no sandbox restrictions.
And using this functionality
requires no entitlements.
App Sandbox is the most advanced
desktop security system in the world,
but it is not perfect and
is not meant to be perfect.
Its purpose is to be another
strong barrier against exploitation
and against coding errors.
It does this by driving
security policy by user intent,
and it's a technology that's
really complementary to Gatekeeper.
We'll be talking about Gatekeeper more,
I think, actually,
in this very room immediately
after this presentation.
Another very frequent question is, "Well,
why Gatekeeper if there's
already App Sandbox,
and why App Sandbox if there's
already Gatekeeper?" And the
reason is because they solve
fundamentally different problems.
Gatekeeper is a mechanism
designed to prevent inadvertent
installation of malware,
of applications that were
intentionally malicious.
App Sandbox is a mechanism that
tries to make it so that coding
errors and vulnerabilities in benign
applications and applications that are
not malware do not ruin the user's day.
So these technologies are
very much complementary.
We have some great documentation for you
guys in the App Sandbox Design Guide.
We have some phenomenal sample codes
showing how to use the new features
like the application groups entitlement.
And obviously we will be here all week to
answer any other questions that you have.
But here's the thing:
30 billion downloads on
iOS from the App Store.
Every single one of those apps,
every app you've ever run on your phone,
every third-party app has run
in a sandbox from day one.
And it's given users this remarkable
carefree experience where they
can go into the App Store,
they don't worry about, "Oh,
is downloading this app going to do
something really bad to my phone?
Like, what's going to happen if it
gets exploited when it's browsing
the internet?" This is just not
even in their mental vocabulary.
And we want to bring that same
delightful carefree experience
to OS X with App Sandbox.
To help you do this,
we'll be talking a lot
about related technologies.
I already mentioned
Gatekeeper and Developer ID,
which is happening here
immediately after this session.
I mentioned two great new automation
security features in Mountain Lion,
and actually there will be a
session covering those in depth.
And finally, for XPC,
there is a session that's
sort of a deeper session,
deep dive on XPC and GCD and
asynchronous technologies.
But actually, not mentioned on this list,
on Thursday,
there is a session at 4:30 p.m.
about Cocoa-level XPC.
So we have some really great new
Cocoa wrappers for XPC in Mountain Lion.
And I really encourage you to visit
that session and see just how easy it
can be to establish XPC communication
between you and your helper apps.
Come by, say hello,
we'd love to work with you
and we'd love to help you
make your applications secure.
Thank you.